kanvas tell forth with song the deeds of indra the impetuous.
wrought in the somas wild delight.
strong god he slew anarsani srbinda pipru and the fiend.
ahīśuva and loosed the floods.
thou broughtest down the dwellingplace the height of lofty arbuda.
that exploit indra must be famed.
bold to your famous soma i call the fairvisored god for aid.
down like a torrent from the hill.
rejoicing in the somadraughts hero burst open like a fort.
the stall of horses and of kine.
if my libation gladdens if thou takest pleasure in my laud.
come with thy godhead from afar.
o indra lover of the song the singers of thy praise are we.
o somadrinker quicken us.
and taking thy delight with us bring us still undiminished food.
great is thy wealth o maghavan.
make thou us rich in herds of kine in steeds in gold let us exert.
our strength in sacrificial gifts.
let us call him to aid whose hands stretch far to whom high laud is due.
who worketh well to succour us.
he Śatakratu even in fight acts as a vṛtraslayer still.
he gives his worshippers much wealth.
may he this aakra strengthen us boon god who satisfies our needs.
indra with all lhis saving helps.
to him the mighty stream of wealth the somapressers rescuing friend.
to indra sing your song of praise.
who bringeth what is great and firm who winneth glory in his wars.
lord of vast wealth through power and might.
there liveth none to cheek or stay his energies and gracious deeds.
none who can say he giveth not.
no debt is due by brahmans now by active men who press the juice.
well hath each somadraught been paid.
sing ye to him who must be praised say lauds to him who must be praised.
bring prayer to him who must be praised.
may be unchecked strong meet for praise bring hundreds thousands forth to light.
indra who aids the worshipper.
go with thy godlike nature forth go where the folk are calling thee.
drink indra of the drops we pour.
drink milky draughts which are thine own this too which was with tugrya once.
this is it indra that is thine.
pass him who psours libations out in angry mood or after sin.
here drink the juice we offer thee.
over the three great distances past the five peoples go thy way.
o indra noticing our voice.
send forth thy ray like sūrya let my songs attract thee hitherward.
like waters gathering to the vale.
now to the hero fair of cheek adhvaryu pour the soma forth.
bring of the juice that he may drink.
who cleft the watercloud in twain loosed rivers for their downward flow.
and set the ripe milk in the kine.
he meet for praise slew vṛtra slew ahīśuva urnavabhas son.
and pierced through arbuda with frost.
to him your matchless mighty one unconquerable conqueror.
sing forth the prayer which gods have given.
indra who in the wild delight of soma juice considers here.
all holy laws among the gods.
hither let these thy bays who share thy banquet steeds with golden manes.
convey thee to the feast prepared.
hither o thou whom many laud the bays whom priyamedha praised.
shall bring thee to the somadraught.
