o thou who slewest vṛtra come o indra hither to our side.
mighty one with thy mighty aids.
swift and impetuous art thou wondrous amid the welldressed folk.
thou doest marvels for our help.
even with the weak thou smitest down him.
who is stronger with thy strength.
the mighty with the friends thou hast.
o indra we are close to thee to thee we sing aloud our songs.
help and defend us even us.
as such o caster of the stone come with thy succours wonderful.
blameless and irresistible.
may we be friends of one like thee o indra with the wealth of kine.
comrades for lively energy.
for thou o indra art alone the lord of strength that comes from kine.
so grant thou us abundant food.
they turn thee not another way when lauded lover of the song.
thou wilt give wealth to those who praise.
the gotamas have sung their song of praise to thee that thou mayst give.
indra for lively energy.
we will declare thy hero deeds what dāsa forts thou brakest down.
attacking them in rapturous joy.
the sages sing those manly deeds which indra lover of the song.
thou wroughtest when the soma flowed.
indra the gotamas who bring thee praises have grown strong by thee.
give them renown with hero sons.
for indra verily thou art the general treasure even of all.
thee therefore do we invocate.
excellent indra turn to us glad thee among us with the juice.
of somas somadrinker thou.
may praise from us who think qn thee o indra bring thee near to us.
turn thy two bay steeds hitherward.
eat of our sacrificial cake rejoice thee in the songs we sing.
even as a lover in his bride.
to india for a thousand steeds welltrained and fleet of foot we pray.
and hundred jars of soma juice.
we make a hundred of thy kine yea and a thousand hasten nigh.
so let thy bounty come to us.
we have obtained a gift from thee ten waterewers wrought of gold.
thou vṛtraslayer givest much.
a bounteous giver give us much bring much and not a trifling gift.
much indra wilt thou fain bestow.
o vṛtraslayer thou art famed in many a place as bountiful.
hero thy bounty let us share.
i praise thy pair of tawny steeds wise son of him who giveth kine.
terrify not the cows with these.
like two slight images of girls unrobed upon a newwrought post.
so shine the bay steeds in their course.
for me the bays are ready when i start or start not with the dawn innocuous in the ways they take.
