whether of these is elder whether later how were they born who knoweth it ye sages.
these of themselves support all things existing as on a car the day and night roll onward.
the twain uphold though motionless and footless a widespread offspring having feet and moving.
like your own son upon his parents’ bosom protect us heaven and earth from fearful danger.
i call for aditis unrivalled bounty perfect celestial deathless meet for worship.
produce this ye twain worlds for him who lauds you protect us heaven and earth from fearful danger.
may we be close to both the worlds who suffer no pain parents of gods who aid with favour.
both mid the gods with day and night alternate protect us heaven and earth from fearful danger.
faring together young with meeting limits twin sisters lying in their parents’ bosom.
kissing the centre of the world together protect us heaven and earth from fearful danger.
duly i call the two wide seats the mighty the general parents with the gods protection.
who beautiful to look on make the nectar protect us heaven and earth from fearful danger.
wide vast and manifold whose bounds are distant—these reverent i address at this our worship.
the blessed pair victorious allsustaining protect us heaven and earth from fearful danger.
what sin we have at any time committed against the gods our friend our houses chieftain.
thereof may this our hymn be expiation protect us heaven and earth from fearful danger.
may both these friends of man who bless preserve me may they attend me with their help and favour.
enrich the man more liberal than the godless may we ye gods be strong with food rejoicing.
endowed with understanding i have uttered this truth for all to hear to earth and heaven.
be near us keep us from reproach and trouble father and mother with your help preserve us.
be this my prayer fulfilled o earth and heaven wherewith father and mother i address you.
nearest of gods be ye with your protection may we find strengthening food in full abundance.
