bring for the manly host wise and majestical o nodhas for the maruts bring thou a pure gift.
i deck my songs as one defthanded wise in mind prepares the water that hath power in solemn rites.
they spring to birth the lofty ones the bulls of heaven divine the youths of rudra free from spot and stain.
the purifiers shining brightly even as suns awful of form like giants scattering raindrops down.
young rudras demonslayers never growing old they have waxed even as mountains irresistible.
they make all beings tremble with their mighty strength even the very strongest both of earth and heaven.
with glittering ornaments they deck them forth for show for beauty on their breasts they bind their chains of gold.
the lances on their shoulders pound to pieces they were born together of themselves the men of heaven.
loud roarers giving strength devourers of the foe they make the winds they make the lightnings with their powers.
the restless shakers drain the udders of the sky and ever wandering round fill the earth full with milk.
the bounteous maruts with the fatness dropping milk fill full the waters which avail in solemn rites.
they lead as ’twere the strong horse forth that it may rain they milk the thundering the neverfailing spring.
mighty with wondrous power and marvellously bright selfstrong like mountains ye glide swiftly on your way.
like the wild elephants ye eat the forests up when ye assume your strength among the bright red flames.
exceeding wise they roar like lions mightily they allpossessing are beauteous as antelopes.
stirring the darkness with lances and spotted deer combined as priests with serpents fury through their might.
heroes who march in companies befriending man with serpents ire through strength ye greet the earth and heaven.
upon the seats o maruts of your chariots upon the cars stands lightning visible as light.
lords of all riches dwelling in the home of wealth endowed with mighty vigour singers loud of voice.
heroes of powers infinite armed with strong mens rings the archers they have laid the arrow on their arms.
they who with golden fellies make the rain increase drive forward the big clouds like wanderers on the way.
selfmoving brisk unwearied they o’erthrow the firm the maruts with bright lances make all things to reel.
the progeny of rudra we invoke with prayer the brisk the bright the worshipful the active ones.
to the strong band of maruts cleave for happiness the chasers of the sky impetuous vigorous.
maruts the man whom ye have guarded with your help he verily in strength surpasseth all mankind.
spoil with his steeds he gaineth treasure with his men he winneth honourable strength and prospereth.
o maruts to the worshippers give glorious strength invincible in battle brilliant bringing wealth.
praiseworthy known to all men may we foster well during a hundred winters son and progeny.
will ye then o ye maruts grant us riches durable rich in men defying onslaught.
a hundred thousandfold ever increasing may he enriched with prayer come soon and early.
