the maruts of resistless might who love the rain resplendent terrible like wild beasts in their strength.
glowing like flames of fire impetuous in career blowing the wandering raincloud have disclosed the kine.
they gleam with armlets as the heavens are decked with stars like cloudborn lightnings shine the torrents of their rain.
since the strong rudra o maruts with brilliant chests sprang into life for you in pṛśnis radiant lap.
they drip like horses in the racings of swift steeds with the streams rapid cars they hasten on their way.
maruts with helms of gold ye who make all things shake come with your spotted deer oneminded to our food.
they have bestowed of mitra all that live to feed they who for evermore cause their swift drops to flow.
whose steeds are spotted deer whose riches never fail like horses in full speed bound to the pole in work.
with brightlyflaming kine whose udders swell with milk with glittering lances on your unobstructed paths.
o maruts of one mind like swans who seek their nests come to the rapturous enjoyment of the meath.
to these our prayers o maruts come unanimous come ye to our libations like the praise of men.
make it swell like a mare in udder like a cow and for the singer grace the song with plenteous strength.
give us a steed o maruts mighty in the car prevailing prayer that brings remembrance day by day.
food to your praisers to your bard in deeds of might give winning wisdom power uninjured unsurpassed.
when the brightchested maruts lavish of their gifts bind at the time bliss their horses to the cars.
then as the milchcow feeds her calf within the stalls they pour forth food for all oblationbringing men.
save us o maruts vasus from the injurer the mortal foe who makes us looked upon as wolves.
with chariot all aflame compass him round about o rudras cast away the foemans deadly bolt.
wellknown ye maruts is that wondrous course of yours when they milked pṛśnis udder close akin to her.
or when to shame the bard who lauded rudras sons ye o infallible brought trita to decay.
we call you such great maruts following wonted ways to the oblation paid to viṣṇu speederon.
with ladles lifted up with prayer we seek of them preeminent goldenhued the wealth which all extol.
they the daśagvas first of all brought sacrifice they at the break of mornings shall inspirit us.
dawn with her purple beams uncovereth the nights with great light glowing like a billowy sea of milk.
the rudras have rejoiced them in the gathered bands at seats of worship as in purple ornaments.
they with impetuous vigour sending down the rain have taken to themselves a bright and lovely hue.
soliciting their high protection for our help with this our adoration we sing praise to them.
whom for assistance like the five terrestrial priests trita hath brought to aid us hither on his car.
so may your favouring help be turned to usward your kindness like a lowing cow approach us.
wherewith ye bear your servant over trouble and free your worshipper from scoff and scorning.
