father of maruts let thy bliss approach us exclude us not from looking on the sunlight.
gracious to our fleet courser be the hero may we transplant us rudra in our children.
with the most saving medicines which thou givest rudra may i attain a hundred winters.
far from us banish enmity and hatred and to all quarters maladies and trouble.
chief of all born art thou in glory rudra armed with the thunder mightiest of the mighty.
transport us over trouble to wellbeing repel thou from us all assaults of mischief.
let us not anger thee with worship rudra ill praise strong god or mingled invocation.
do thou with strengthening balms incite our heroes i hear thee famed as best of all physicians.
may i with praisesongs win that rudras favour who is adored with gifts and invocations.
ne’er may the tawny god fairchecked and gracious swifthearing yield us to this evil purpose.
the strong begirt by maruts hath refreshed me with most invigorating food imploring.
as he who finds a shade in fervent sunlight may i uninjured win the bliss of rudra.
where is that gracious hand of thine o rudra the hand that giveth health and bringeth comfort.
remover of the woe that gods have sent us o strong one look thou on me with compassion.
to him the strong great tawny faircomplexioned i utter forth a mighty hymn of praises.
we serve the brilliant god with adorations we glorify the splendid name of rudra.
with firm limbs multiform the strong the tawny adorns himself with bright gold decorations.
the strength of godhead ne’er departs from rudra him who is sovran of this world the mighty.
worthy thou carriest thy bow and arrows worthy thy manyhued and honoured necklace.
worthy thou cuttest here each fiend to pieces a mightier than thou there is not rudra.
praise him the chariotborne the young the famous fierce slaying like a dread beast of the forest.
o rudra praised be gracious to the singer let thy hosts spare us and smite down another.
i bend to thee as thou approachest rudra even as a boy before the sire who greets him.
i praise thee bounteous giver lord of heroes give medicines to us as thou art lauded.
of your pure medicines o potent maruts those that are wholesomest and healthbestowing.
those which our father manu hath selected i crave from rudra for our gain and welfare.
may rudras missile turn aside and spare us the great wrath of the impetuous one avoid us.
turn bounteous god thy strong bow from our princes and be thou gracious to our seed and offspring.
o tawny bull thus showing forth thy nature as neither to be wroth o god nor slay us.
here rudra listen to our invocation loud may we speak with heroes in assembly.
