high hymns have sounded forth the praise of maghavan supporter of mankind of indra meet for lauds.
him who hath waxen great invoked with beauteous songs immortal one whose praise each day is sung aloud.
to indra from all sides go forth my songs of praise the lord of hundred powers strong hero like the sea.
swift winner of the booty breakerdown of forts faithful and everglorious finder of the light.
where battles spoil is piled the singer winneth praise for indra taketh care of matchless worshippers.
he in vivasvāns dwelling findeth his delight praise thou the everconquering slayer of the foe.
thee valorous most heroic of the heroes shall the priests glorify with songg and praises.
full of all wondrous power he goes to conquest worship is his sole lord from days aforetime.
abundant are the gifts he gives to mortals for him the earth bears a rich store of treasures.
the heavens the growing plants the living waters the forest trees preserve their wealth for indra.
to thee o indra lord of bays for ever are offered prayers and songs accept them gladly.
as kinsman think thou of some fresh assistance good friend give strength and life to those who praise thee.
here indra drink thou soma with the maruts as thou didst drink the juice beside Śāryāta.
under thy guidance in thy keeping hero the singers serve skilled in fair sacrifices.
so eagerly desirous drink the soma our juice o indra with thy friends the maruts.
since at thy birth all deities adorned thee for the great fight o thou invoked of many.
he was your comrade in your zeal o maruts they rich in noble gifts rejoiced in indra.
with them together let the vṛtraslayer drink in his home the worshippers libation.
so lord of affluent gifts this juice hath been pressed for thee with strength.
drink of it thou who lovest song.
incline thy body to this juice which suits thy godlike nature well.
may it cheer thee who lovest it.
brave indra let it work through both thy flanks and through thy head by prayer.
and through thine arms to prosper us.
