when will mens guardians hasting hear with favour the song of aṅgirass pious.
a hreferratahtm.
3childrena.
when to the people of the home he cometh he strideth to the sacrifice the holy.
he stablished heaven he poured forth skilful worker the wealth of kine for strength that nurtures heroes.
the mighty one his selfborn host regarded the horses mate the mother of the heifer.
lord of red dawns he came victorious daily to the aṅgirases former invocation.
his bolt and team hath he prepared and stablished the heaven for quadrupeds and men twofooted.
in joy of this thou didst restore for worship the lowing company of hidden cattle.
when the threepointed one descends with onslaught he opens wide the doors that cause man trouble.
thine is that milk which thy swiftmoving parents brought down a strengthening genial gift for conquest.
when the pure treasure unto thee they offered the milk shed from the cow who streameth nectar.
there is he born may the swift give us rapture and like the sun shine forth from yonder dawning.
indu even us who drank whose toils are offerings poured from the spoon with praise upon the altar.
when the woodpile made of good logs is ready at the suns worship to bind fast the bullock.
then when thou shinest forth through days of action for the carborne the swift the cattleseeker.
eight steeds thou broughtest down from mighty heaven when fighting for the well that giveth splendour.
that men might press with stones the gladdening yellow strengthened with milk fermenting to exalt thee.
thou hurledst forth from heaven the iron missile brought by the skilful from the sling of leather.
when thou o muchinvoked assisting kutsa with endless deadly darts didst compass Śuṣṇa.
boltarmed ere darkness overtook the sunlight thou castest at the veiling cloud thy weapon.
thou rentest out of heaven though firmly knotted the might of Śuṣṇa that was thrown around him.
the mighty heaven and earth those bright expanses that have no wheels joyed indra at thine exploit.
vṛtra the boar who lay amid the waters to sleep thou sentest with thy mighty thunder.
mount indra lover of the men thou guardest the wellyoked horses of the wind best bearers.
the bolt which kāvya uśanā erst gave thee strong gladdening vṛtraslaying hath he fashioned.
the strong bay horses of the sun thou stayedst this etaśa drew not the wheel o indra.
casting them forth beyond the ninety rivers thou dravest down into the pit the godless.
indra preserve thou us from this affliction thunderarmed save us from the misery near us.
vouchsafe us affluence in chariots founded on horses for our food and fame and gladness.
never may this thy lovingkindness fail us mighty in strength may plenteous food surround us.
maghavan make us share the foemans cattle may we be thy most liberal feast companions.
