the dawn refulgent when the fire is kindled and the sun rising far diffuse their brightness.
savitar god hath sent us forth to labour each quadruped each biped to be active.
not interrupting heavenly ordinances although she minisheth human generations.
the last of endless morns that have departed the first of those that come dawn brightly shineth.
there in the eastern region she heavens daughter arrayed in garments all of light appeareth.
truly she followeth the path of order nor faileth knowing well the heavenly quarters.
near is she seen as ’twere the bright ones bosom she showeth sweet things like a new songsinger.
she cometh like a fly awaking sleepers of all returning dames most true and constant.
there in the east half of the watery region the mother of the cows hath shown her ensign.
wider and wider still she spreadeth onward and filleth full the laps of both heir parents.
she verily exceeding vast to look on debarreth from her light nor kin nor stranger.
proud of her spotless form she brightly shining turneth not from the high nor from the humble.
she seeketh men as she who hath no brother mounting her car as ’twere to gather riches.
dawn like a loving matron for her husband smiling and well attired unmasks her beauty.
the sister quitteth for the elder sister her place and having looked on her departeth.
she decks her beauty shining forth with sunbeams like women trooping to the festal meeting.
to all these sisters who ere now have vanished a later one each day in course succeedeth.
so like the past with days of happy fortune may the new dawns shine forth on us with riches.
rouse up o wealthy one the liberal givers let niggard traffickers sleep on unwakened.
shine richly wealthy one on those who worship richly glad.
dawn while wasting on the singer.
this young maid from the east hath shone upon us she harnesseth her team of bright red oxen.
she will beam forth the light will hasten hither and agni will be present in each dwelling.
as the birds fly forth from their resting places so men with store of food rise at thy dawning.
yea to the liberal mortal who remaineth at home o goddess dawn much good thou bringest.
praised through my prayer be ye who should be lauded ye have increased our wealth ye dawns who love us.
goddesses may we win by your good favour wealth to be told by hundreds and by thousands.
