why hath the best why hath the youngest come to us upon what embassy comes he what have we said.
we have not blamed the chalice of illustrious birth we brother agni praised the goodness of the wood.
the chalice that is single make ye into four thus have the gods commanded therefore am i come.
if o sudhanvans children ye will do this thing ye shall participate in sacrifice with gods.
what to the envoy agni in reply ye spake a courser must be made a chariot fashioned here.
a cow must be created and the twain made young when we have done these things brother we turn to you.
when thus o Ṛbhus ye had done ye questioned thus whither went he who came to us a messenger.
then tvaṣṭar when he viewed the four wrought chalices concealed himself among the consorts of the gods.
as tvaṣṭar thus had spoken let us slay these men who have reviled the chalice drinkingcup of gods.
they gave themselves new names when soma juice was shed and under these new names the maiden welcomed them.
indra hath yoked his bays the aśvins car is horsed bṛhaspati hath brought the cow of every hue.
ye went as Ṛbhus vibhvan vāja to the gods and skilled in war obtained your share in sacrifice.
ye by your wisdom brought a cow from out a hide unto that ancient pair ye gave again their youth.
out of a horse sudhanvans sons ye formed a horse a chariot ye equipped and went unto the gods.
drink ye this water were the words ye spake to them or drink ye this the rinsing of the muñjagrass.
if ye approve not even this sudhanvans sons then at the third libation gladden ye yourselves.
most excellent are waters thus said one of you most excellent is agni thus another said.
another praised to many a one the lightning cloud then did ye shape the cups speaking the words of truth.
one downward to the water drives the crippled cow another trims the flesh brought on the carvingboard.
one carries off the refuse at the set of sun how did the parents aid their children in their task.
on the high places ye have made the grass for man and water in the valleys by your skill o men.
Ṛbhus ye iterate not today that act of yours your sleeping in the house of him whom naught can hide.
as compassing them round ye glided through the worlds where had the venerable parents their abode.
ye laid a curse on him who raised his arm at you to him who spake aloud to you ye spake again.
when ye had slept your fill ye Ṛbhus thus ye asked o thou whom naught may hide who now hath wakened us.
the goat declared the hound to be your wakener that day in a full year ye first unclosed our eyes.
the maruts move in heaven on earth this agni through the midfirmament the wind approaches.
varuṇa comes in the seas gathered waters o sons of strength desirous of your presence.
