we seeking strength with somadrops fill full your indra like a well.
most liberal lord of hundred powers.
who lets a hundred of the pure a thousand of the milkblent draughts.
flow even as down a depth to him.
when for the strong the rapturous joy he in this manner hath made room.
within his belly like the sea.
this is thine own thou drawest near as turns a pigeon to his mate.
thou carest too for this our prayer.
o hero lord of bounties praised in hymns may power and joyfulness.
be his who sings the laud to thee.
lord of a hundred powers stand up to lend us succour in this fight.
in others too let us agree.
in every need in every fray we call as friends to succour us.
indra the mightiest of all.
if he will hear us let him come with succour of a thousand kinds.
and all that strengthens to our call.
i call him mighty to resist the hero of our ancient home.
thee whom my sire invoked of old.
we pray to thee o muchinvoked rich in all precious gifts o friend.
kind god to those who sing thy praise.
o somadrinker thunderarmed friend of our lovelyfeatured dames.
and of our somadrinking friends.
thus somadrinker may it be thus friend who wieldest thunder act.
to aid each wish as we desire.
with indra splendid feasts be ours rich in all strengthening things wherewith.
wealthy in food we may rejoice.
like thee thyself the singers friend thou movest as it were besought.
bold one the axle of the car.
that Śatakratu thou to grace and please thy praisers as it were.
stirrest the axle with thy strength.
with champing neighing loudlysnorting horses indra hath ever won himself great treasures.
a car of gold hath he whose deeds are wondrous received from us and let us too receive it.
come aśvins with enduring strength wealthy in horses and in kine.
and gold o ye of wondrous deeds.
your chariot yoked for both alike immortal ye of mighty acts.
travels o aśvins in the sea.
high on the forehead of the bull one chariot wheel ye ever keep.
the other round the sky revolves.
what mortal o immortal dawn enjoyeth thee where lovest thou.
to whom o radiant dost thou go.
for we have had thee in our thoughts whether anear or far away.
redhued and like a dappled mare.
hither o daughter of the sky come thou with these thy strengthenings.
and send thou riches down to us.
