to thee the mighty one i bring this mighty hymn for thy desire hath been gratified by my laud.
in indra yea in him victorious through his strength the gods have joyed at feast and when the soma flowed.
the seven rivers bear his glory far and wide and heaven and sky and earth display his comely form.
the sun and moon in change alternate run their course that we o indra may behold and may have faith.
maghavan grant us that same car to bring us spoil thy conquering car in which we joy in shock of fight.
thou indra whom our hearts praise highly in the war grant shelter maghavan to us who love thee well.
encourage thou our side in every fight may we with thee for our ally conquer the foemans host.
indra bestow on us joy and felicity break down o maghavan the vigour of our foes.
for here in divers ways these men invoking thee holder of treasures sing hymns to win thine aid.
ascend the car that thou mayest bring spoil to us for indra thy fixt winneth the victory.
his arms win kine his power is boundless in each act best with a hundred helps waker of battles din.
is indra none may rival him in mighty strength hence eager for the spoil the people call on him.
thy glory maghavan exceeds a hundred yea more than a hundred than a thousand mid the folk.
the great bowl hath inspirited thee boundlessly so mayst thou slay the vṛtras breakerdown of forts.
of thy great might there is a three counterpart the three earths lord men and the three realms of light.
above this whole world indra thou hast waxen great without a foe art thou nature from of old.
we invocate thee first among the deities thou hast become a mighty conquer in fight.
may indra fill with spirit this our singers heart and make our car impetuous foremost in attack.
thou hast prevailed and hast not kept the booty back in trifling battles in those of great account.
we make thee keen the mighty one succour us inspire us maghavan when we defy the foe.
may indra evermore be our protector and unimperilled may we win the booty.
this prayer of ours may varuṇa grant and mitra and aditi and sindhu earth and heaven.
