strewn is the sacred grass come vāyu to our feast with team of thousands come lord of the harnessed team with hundreds lord of harnessed steeds.
the drops divine are lifted up for thee the god to drink them first.
the juices rich in sweets have raised them for thy joy have raised themselves to give thee strength.
purified by the stones the soma flows for thee clothed with its lovely splendours to the reservoir flows clad in its refulgent light.
for thee the soma is poured forth thy portioned share mid gods and men.
drive thou thy horses vāyu come to us with love come wellinclined and loving us.
come thou with hundreds come with thousands in thy team to this our solemn rite to taste the sacred food vāyu to taste the offerings.
this is thy seasonable share that comes coradiant with the sun.
brought by attendant priests pure juice is offered up vāyu pure juice is offered up.
the chariot with its team of horses bring you both to guard us and to taste the wellappointed food vāyu to taste the offerings.
drink of the pleasantflavoured juice the first draught is assigned to you.
o vāyu with your splendid bounty come ye both indra with bounty come ye both.
may our songs bring you hither to our solemn rites these drops of mighty vigour have they beautified like a swift steed of mighty strength.
drink of them wellinclined to us come hitherward to be our help.
drink indravāyu of these juices pressed with stones strengthgivers till they gladden you.
these soma juices pressed for you in waters here borne by attendant priests are offered up to you bright vāyu are they offered up.
swift through the strainer have they flowed and here are shed for both of you.
somadrops fain for you over the wethers fleece somas over the wethers fleece.
o vāyu pass thou over all the slumberers and where the pressstone rings enter ye both that house yea indra go ye both within.
the joyous maiden is beheld the butter flows with richly laden team come to our solemn rite yea indra come ye to the rite.
ride hither to the offering of the pleasant juice the holy figtree which victorious priests surround victorious be they still for us.
at once the cows yield milk the barleymeal is dressed for thee.
o vāyu never shall the cows grow thin never for thee shall they be dry.
these bulls of thine o vāyu with the arm of strength who swiftly fly within the current of thy stream the bulls increasing in their might.
horseless yet even through the waste swiftmoving whom no shout can stay.
hard to be checked are they like sunbeams in their course hard to be checked by both the hands.
