wno are these radiant men in serried rank rudras young heroes borne by noble steeds.
verily no one knoweth whence they sprang they and they only know each others birth.
they strew each other with their blasts these hawks they strove together roaring like the wind.
a sage was he who knew these mysteries what in her udder mighty pṛśni bore.
ever victorious through the maruts be this band of heroes nursing manly strength.
most bright in splendour flectest on their way closeknit to glory strong with varied power.
yea mighty is your power and firm your strength so potent with the maruts be the band.
bright is your spirit wrathful are your minds your bold troops minstrel is like one inspired.
ever avert your blazing shaft from us and let not your displeasure reach us here.
your dear names conquering maruts we invoke calling aloud till we are satisfied.
wellarmed impetuous in their haste they deck themselves their forms with oblations to you the pure ornaments made of gold.
pure maruts pure yourselves are your oblations to you the pure pure sacrifice i offer.
by law they came to truth the laws observers bright by their birth and pure and sanctifying.
your rings o maruts rest upon your shoulders and chains of gold are twined upon your bosoms.
gleaming with drops of rain like lightningflashes after your wont ye whirl about your weapons.
wide in the depth of air spread forth your glories far most adorable ye bear your titles.
maruts accept this thousandfold allotment of household sacrifice and household treasure.
if maruts ye regard the praise recited here at this mighty singer invocation.
vouchsafe us quickly wealth with noble heroes wealth which no man uho hateth us may injure.
the maruts fleet as coursers while they deck them like youths spectators of a festal meeting.
linger like beauteous colts about the dwelling like frisking calves these who pour down the water.
so may the maruts help us and be gracious bringing free room to lovely earth and heaven.
far be your bolt that slayeth men and cattle ye vasus turn yourselves to us with blessings.
the priest when seated loudly calls you maruts praising in song your universal bounty.
he bulls who hath so much in his possession free from duplicity with hymns invokes you.
these maruts bring the swift man to a standstill and strength with mightier strength they break and humble.
these guard the singer from the man who hates him and lay their sore displeasure on the wicked.
these maruts rouse even the poor and needy the vasus love him as an active champion.
drive to a distance o ye bulls the darkness give us full store of children and descendants.
never o maruts may we lose your bounty nor carborne lords be hitidmost when ye deal it.
give us a share in that delightful treasure the genuine wealth that bulls is your possession.
what time the men in fury rush together for running streams for pastures and for houses.
then o ye maruts ye who spring from rudra be our protectors in the strife with foemen.
full many a deed ye did for our forefathers worthy of lauds which even of old they sang you.
lle strong man with the maruts wins in battle the charger with the maruts gains the booty.
ours o ye maruts be the vigorous hero the lord divine of men the strong sustainer.
with whom to fair lands we may cross the waters and dwell in our own home with you beside us.
may indra mitra varuṇa and agni waters and plants and trees accept our praises.
may we find shelter in the maruts bosom preserve us evermore ye gods with blessings.
