now may our sweetest song with deep devotion reach varuṇa mitra aditi and bhaga.
may the five priests lord dwelling in oblations blissgiving asura hear whose paths are open.
may aditi welcome even as a mother her dear heartgladdening son my song that lauds her.
the prayer they love blissgiving godappointed i offer unto varuṇa and mitra.
in spirit him the sagest of the sages with sacrificial oil and meath bedew him.
so then let him god savitar provide us excellent ready and resplendent treasures.
with willing mind indra vouchsafe us cattle prosperity lord of bays and pious patrons.
and with the sacred prayer by gods appointed give us the holy deities lovingkindness.
god bhaga savitar who deals forth riches indra and they who conquer vṛtras treasures.
and vāja and Ṛbhukṣan and purandhi the mighty and immortal ones protect us.
let us declare his deeds the undecaying unrivalled victor whom the maruts follow.
none of old times o maghavan nor later none of these days hath reached thy hero prowess.
praise him the chief who gives the boon of riches bṛhaspati distributor of treasures.
who blessing most the man who sings and praises comes with abundant wealth to his invoker.
tended bṛhaspati with thy protections the princes are unharmed and girt by heroes.
wealth that brings bliss is found among the givers of horses and of cattle and of raiment.
make their wealth flee who through our hymns enjoying their riches yield us not an ample guerdon.
far from the sun keep those who hate devotion the godless prospering in their vocation.
with wheelless chariots drive down him o maruts who at the feasts of gods regards the demons.
may he though bathed in sweat form empty wishes who blames his sacred rite who toils to serve you.
praise him whose bow is strong and sure his arrow him who is lord of every balm that bealeth.
worship thou rudra for his great good favour adore the asura god with salutations.
may the housefriends the cunninghanded artists may the steers wives the streams carved out by vibhvan.
and may the fair ones honour and befriend us sarasvatī brhaddiva and rākā.
my newest song thought that now springs within me i offer to the great the sure protector.
who made for us this all in fond love laying each varied form within his daughters bosom.
now even now may thy fair praise o singer attain idaspati who roars and thunders.
who rich in clouds and waters with his lightning speeds forth bedewing both the earth and heaven.
may this my laud attain the troop of maruts those who are youths in act the sons of rudra.
the wish calls me to riches and wellbeing praise the unwearied ones whose steeds are dappled.
may this my laud reach earth and airs midregion and forest trees and plants to win me riches.
may every deity be swift to listen and mother earth with no ill thought regard me.
gods may we dwell in free untroubled bliss.
may we obtain the aśvins newest favour and gain their healthbestowing happy guidance.
bring riches hither unto us and heroes and all felicity and joy immortals.
