sing to your agni with each song at every sacrifice for strength.
come let us praise the wise and everlasting god even as a wellbeloved friend.
the son of strength for is he not our gracious lord let us serve him who bears our gifts.
in battle may he be our help and strengthener yea be the saviour of our lives.
agni thou beamest forth with light great hero never changed by time.
shining pure agni with a light that never fades beam with thy fair beams brilliantly.
thou worshippest great gods bring them without delay by wisdom and thy wondrous power.
o agni make them turn hither to succour us give strength and win it for thyself.
he whom floods stones and trees support the offspring of eternal law.
he who when rubbed with force is brought to life by men upon the lofty height of earth.
he who hath filled both worlds fult with his brilliant shine who hastens with his smoke to heaven.
he made himself apparent through the gloom by night the red bull in the darksome nights the red bull in the darksome nights.
o agni with thy lofty beams with thy pure brilliancy o god.
kindled most youthful one by bharadvājas hand shine on us o pure god with wealth shine purifier splendidly.
thou art the lord of house and home of all the tribes o agni of all tribes of men.
guard with a hundred forts thy kindler from distress through hundred winters youngest god and those who make thy singers rich.
wonderful with thy favouring help send us thy bounties gracious lord.
thou art the charioteer agni of earthly wealth find rest and safety for our seed.
with guards unfailing never negligent speed thou our children and our progeny.
keep far from us o agni all celestial wrath and wickedness of godless men.
hither o friends with newest song drive her who freely pours her milk.
loose her who never turns away.
who for the host of maruts bright with native sheen hath shed immortal fame like milk.
whom the impetuous maruts look upon with love who moves in splendour on their ways.
for bharadvāja she poured down in days of old.
the milchcow yielding milk for all and food that gives all nourishment.
your friend like indra passing wise with magic power like varuṇa.
like aryaman joygiving bringing plenteous food like visnxu for my wish i praise.
bright as the host of maruts mighty in their roar may they bring pūṣan free from foes.
may they bring hither hundreds thousands for our men may they bring hidden stores to light and make wealth easy to be found.
haste to me pūṣan in thine car bright deity i fain would speak.
most sinful is our foemans hate.
tear not up by the roots the kakambira tree destroy thou all malignity.
let them not snare by day the neck of that celestial bird the sun.
uninjured let thy friendship be like the smooth surface of a skin.
a flawless skin containing curds full to the mouth containing curds.
for thou art high above mankind in glory equal to the gods.
therefore o pūṣan look upon us in the fight now help us as in days of old.
may the kind excellence of him the kind loud roarers be our guide.
be it the gods o maruts or a mortal mans who worships ye impetuous ones.
they whose high glory in a moment like the god the sun goes round the space of heaven.
the maruts have obtained bright strength a sacred name strength that destroys the vṛtras strength vṛtradestroying excellent.
once only once the heaven was made once only once the earth was formed.
once only pṛśnis milk was shed no second after this is born.
