that which is wealthiest wealthy god in splendoursmost illustrious.
soma is pressed thy gladdening draught indra libations lord is this.
effectual most effectual one thine as bestowing wealth of hymns.
soma is pressed thy gladdening draught indra libations lord is this.
wherewith thou art increased in strength and conquerest with thy proper aids.
soma is pressed thy gladdening draught indra libations lord is this.
him for your sake i glorify as lord of strength who wrongeth none.
the hero indra conquering all most bounteous god of all the tribes.
those goddesses both heaven and earth revere the power and might of him.
him whom our songs increase in strength the lord of bounty swift to come.
to seat your indra i will spread abroad with power this song of praise.
the saving succours that abide in him like songs extend and grow.
a recent friend he found the skilful priest he drank and showed forth treasure from the gods.
he conquered borne by strong allshaking mares and was with farspread power his friends protector.
in course of law the sapient juice was quaffed the deities to glory turned their mind.
winning through hymns a lofty title he the lovely made his beauteous form apparent.
bestow on us the most illustrious strength ward off mens manifold malignities.
give with thy might abundant vital force and aid us graciously in gaining riches.
we turn to thee as giver liberal indra lord of the bay steeds be not thou ungracious.
no friend among mankind have we to lookto why have men called thee him who spurs the niggard.
give us not up strong hero to the hungry unharmed be we whom thou so rich befriendest.
full many a boon hast thou for men demolish those who present no gifts nor pour oblations.
as indra thundering impels the rainclouds so doth he send us store of kine and horses.
thou art of old the cherisher of singers let not the rich who bring no gifts deceive thee.
adbyaryu hero bring to mighty indrafor he is king thereofthe pressedout juices.
to him exalted by the hymns and praises ancient and modern of the singing Ṛṣis.
in the wild joy of this hath indra knowing full many a form struck down resistless vṛtras.
proclaim aloud to him the savoury soma so that the hero strong of jaw may drink it.
may indra drink this soma poured to please him and cheered therewith slay vṛtra with his thunder.
come to our sacrifice even from a distance good lover of our songs the bards supporter.
the cup whence indra drinks the draught is present the amṛta dear to indra hath been drunken.
that it may cheer the god to gracious favour and keep far from us hatred and affliction.
therewith enraptured hero slay our foemen the unfriendly maghavan be they kin or strangers.
those who still aim their hostile darts to smite us turn them to flight o indra crush and kill them.
o indra maghavan in these our battles win easy paths for us and ample freedom.
that we may gain waters and seed and offspring set thou our princes on thy side o indra.
let thy bay stallions harnessed bring thee hither steeds with strong chariot and strong reins to hold them.
strong horses speeding hither bearing thunder wellharnessed for the strong exciting potion.
beside the vat strong god stand thy strong horses shining with holy oil like waves exulting.
indra they bring to thee the strong and mighty soma of juices shed by mighty pressstones.
thou art the bull of earth the bull of heaven bull of the rivers bull of standing waters.
for thee the strong o bull hath indu swollen juice pleasant sweet to drink for thine election.
this god with might when first he had his being with indra for ally held fast the paṇi.
this indu stole away the warlike weapons and foiled the arts of his malignant father.
the dawns he wedded to a glorious consort and set within the sun the light that lights him.
he found in heaven in the third lucid regions the threefold amṛta in its close concealment.
he stayed and held the heaven and earth asunder the chariot with the sevenfold reins he harnessed.
this soma set with power within the milchkine a spring whose ripe contents ten fingers empty.
