een to the wise let that be still a wonder to which the general name of cow is given.
the one hath swelled among mankind for milking pṛśni hath drained but once her fair bright udder.
they who like kindled flames of fire are glowing the maruts twice and thrice have waxen mighty.
golden and dustless were their cars invested with their great strength and their heroic vigour.
they who are sons of the rainpouring rudra whom the longlasting one had power to foster.
the mighty ones whose germ great mother pṛśni is known to have received for mans advantage.
they shrink not from the birth in this same manner still resting there they purge away reproaches.
when they have streamed forth brilliant at their pleasure with their own splendour they bedew their bodies.
even those who bear the brave bold name of maruts whom not the active quickly wins for milking.
even the liberal wards not off those fierce ones those who are light and agile in their greatness.
when strong in strength and armed with potent weapons they had united wellformed earth and heaven.
rodasl stood among these furious heroes like splendour shining with her native brightness.
no team of goats shall draw your car o maruts no horse no charioteer be he who drives it.
halting not reinless through the air it travels speeding alone its paths through earth and heaven.
none may obstruct none overtake o maruts him whom ye succour in the strife of battle.
for sons and progeny for kine and waters he bursts the cowstall on the day of trial.
bring a bright hymn to praise the band of maruts the singers rapid strong in native vigour.
who conquer mighty strength with strength more mighty earth shakes in terror at their wars o agni.
bright like the flashing flames of sacrifices like tongues of fire impetuous in their onset.
chanting their psalm singing aloud like heroes splendid from birth invincible the maruts.
that swelling band i call with invocation the brood of rudra armed with glittering lances.
pure hymns are meet for that celestial army like floods and mountains have the strong ones battled.
