i call with prayers on aditi your goddess on agni mitra varuṇa for favour.
on aryaman who gives unasked the gracious on gods who save on savitar and bhaga.
visit to prove us free from sin o sūrya lord of great might the bright gods sprung from dakṣa.
twiceborn and true observing sacred duties holy and full of light whose tongue is agni.
and o ye heaven and earth a wide dominion o ye most blissful worlds our lofty shelter.
give ample room and freedom for our dwelling a home ye hemispheres which none may rival.
this day invited may the sons of rudra resistless excellent stoop down to meet us.
for when beset with slight or sore affliction we ever call upon the gods the maruts.
to whom the goddess rodasī clings closely whom pūṣan follows bringing ample bounty.
what time ye hear our call and come o maruts upon your separate path all creatures tremble.
with a new hymn extol o thou who singest the lover of the song the hero indra.
may he exalted hear our invocation and grant us mighty wealth and strength when lauded.
give full protection friends of man ye waters in peace and trouble to our sons and grandsons.
for ye are our most motherly physicians parents of all that standeth all that moveth.
may savitar come hither and approach us the god who rescues holy goldenhanded.
the god who bounteous as the face of morning discloses precious gifts for him who worships.
and thou o son of strength do thou turn hither the gods today to this our holy service.
may i for evermore enjoy thy bounty and agni by thy grace be rich in heroes.
come also to my call o ye nāsatyas yea verily through my prayers ye holy sages.
as from great darkness ye delivered atri protect us chiefs from danger in the conflict.
o gods bestow upon us riches splendid with strength and heroes bringing food in plenty.
be gracious helpful gods of earth of heaven born of the cow and dwellers in the waters.
may rudra and sarasvatī accordant viṣṇu and vāyu pour down gifts and bless us.
Ṛbhukṣan vāja and divine vidhatar parjanya vāta make our food abundant.
may this god savitar the lord the offspring of waters pouring down his dew be gracious.
and with the gods and dames accordant tvaṣṭar dyaus with the gods and prthivi with oceans.
may ajaekapād and ahibudhnya and earth and ocean hear our invocation.
all gods who strengthen law invoked and lauded and holy texts uttered by sages help us.
so with my thoughts and hymns of praise the children of bharadvāja sing aloud to please you.
the dames invoked and the resistless vasus and all ye holy ones have been exalted.
