thou first inventor of this prayer o agni worker of marvels hast become our herald.
thou bull hast made us strength which none may conquer strength that shall overcome all other prowess.
as priest thou sattest at the seat of worship furthering us best offerer meet for honour.
so first to thee have pious men resorted turning thy mind to thoughts of ample riches.
in thee still watching they have followed riches who goest with much wealth as with an army.
the radiant agni lofty fair to look on worshipped with marrow evermore resplendent.
they who approached the gods abode with homage eager for glory won them perfect glory.
yea they gained even sacrificial titles and found delight in thine auspicious aspect.
on earth the people magnify thee greatly thee their celestial and terrestrial riches.
thou helper must be known as our preserver father and mother of mankind for ever.
dear priest among mankind adorable agni hath seated him joygiver skilled in worship.
let us approach thee shining in thy dwelling kneeling upon our knees with adoration.
longing for bliss pureminded goddevoted agni we seek thee such meet to be lauded.
thou agni leddest forth our men to battle refulgent with the heavens exalted splendour.
sage of mankind all peoples lord and master the bull of men the sender down of blessings.
still pressing on promoting purifying agni the holy one the lord of riches.
agni the mortal who hath toiled and worshipped brought thee oblations with his kindled fuel.
and well knows sacrifice with adoration gains every joy with thee to guard and help him.
mightily let us worship thee the mighty with reverence agni fuel and oblations.
with songs o son of strength with hymns with altar so may we strive for thine auspicious favour.
thou who hast covered heaven and earth with splendour and with thy glories glorious and triumphant.
continue thou to shine on us o agni with strength abundant rich and long enduring.
vouchsafe us ever as man needs o vasu abundant wealth of kine for son and offspring.
food noble plenteous far from sin and evil he with us and fair fame to make us happy.
may i obtain much wealth in many places by love of thee and through thy grace king agni.
for in thee bounteous one in thee the sovran agni are many boons for him who serves thee.
