may the milchcows who hasten to their object come harmless unto us with liquid sweetness.
the singer lauding calls for ample riches the seven mighty ones who bring enjoyment.
with reverence and fair praise will i bring hither for sake of strength exhaustless earth and heaven.
father and mother sweetof speech fairhanded may they farfamed in every fight protect us.
adhvaryus make the sweet libations ready and bring the beautiful bright juice to vāyu.
god as our priest be thou the first to drink it we give thee of the mead to make thee joyful.
two armsthe somas dexterous immo latorsand the ten fingers set and fix the pressstone.
the stalk hath poured fair with its spreading branches the meads bright glittering juice that dwells on mountains.
the soma hath been pressed for thee its lover to give thee power and might and high enjoyment.
invoked turn hither in thy car o indra at need thy two welltrained and dear bay horses.
bring by godtraversed paths accordant agni the great aramati celestial lady.
exalted worshipped with our gifts and homage who knoweth holy law to drink sweet soma.
as on his fathers lap the son the darling so on the fire is set the sacred caldron.
which holy singers deck as if extending and heating that which holds the fatty membrane.
hither as herald to invite the aśvins come the great lofty song most sweet and pleasant.
come in one car joygivers to the banquet like the bolt binding pole and nave come hither.
i have declared this speech of adoration to mightiest pūṣan and victorious vāyu.
who by their bounty are the hymns inspirers and of themselves give power as a possession.
invoked by us bring hither jatavedas the maruts all under their names and figures.
come to the sacrifice with aid all maruts all to the songs and praises of the singer.
from high heaven may sarasvatī the holy visit our sacrifice and from the mountain.
eager propitious may the balmy goddess hear our effectual speech our invocation.
set in his seat the god whose back is dusky bṛhaspati the lofty the disposer.
him let us worship set within the dwelling the red the goldenhued the allresplendent.
may the sustainer high in heaven come hither the bounteous one invoked with all his favours.
dweller with dames divine with plants unwearied the steer with triple horn the lifebestower.
the tuneful eloquent priests of him who liveth have sought the mothers bright and loftiest station.
as living men with offered gifts and homage they deck the most auspicious child to clothe him.
agni great vital power is thine the mighty pairs waxing old in their devotion seek thee.
may every deity be swift to listen and mother earth with no ill thought regard me.
gods may we dwell in free untroubled bliss.
may we obtain the aśvins newest favour and gain their healthbestowing happy guidance.
bring riches hither unto us and heroes and all felicity and joy immortals.
