be like thyself o indra strong for our delight here lauded aid us maghavan drinker of the juice.
savitar with the gods protect us hear ye twain we ask for freedom and complete felicity.
bring swift for offering the snare that suits the time to the puredrinker vāyu roaring as he goes.
to him who hath approached the draught of shining milk we ask for freedom and complete felicity.
may savitar the god send us full life to each who sacrifices lives aright and pours the juice.
that we with simple hearts may wait upon the gods we ask for freedom and complete felicity.
may indra evermore be gracious unto us and may king soma meditate our happiness.
even as men secure the comfort of a friend we ask for freedom and complete felicity.
indra hath given the body with its song and strength bṛhaspati thou art the lengthener of life.
the sacrifice is manu providence our sire we ask for freedom and complete felicity.
indra possesseth might celestial nobly formed the singer in the house is agni prudent sage.
he is the sacrifice in synod fair most near we ask for freedom and complete felicity.
not often have we sinned against you secretly nor vasus have we openly provoked the gods.
not one of its ye gods hath worn an alien shape we ask for freedom and complete felicity.
may savitar remove from us our malady and may the mountains keep it far away from where.
the pressstone as it sheds the meath rings loudly forth we ask for freedom and complete felicity.
ye vasus let the stone the presser stand erect avert all enmities and keep them far remote.
our guard to be adored is savitar this god we ask for freedom and complete felicity.
eat strength and fatness in the pasture kine who are balmed at the reservoir and at the seat of law.
so let your body be our bodys medicine we ask for freedom and complete felicity.
the singer fills the spirit all mens love hath he indra takes kindly care of those who pour the juice.
for his libation is the heavenly udder full we ask for freedom and complete felicity.
wondrous thy spiritfilling light triumpliant thy hosts save from decay and are resistless.
the pious votary by straightest pathway speeds to possess the best of all the cattle.
