in the great synod will i laud thy two bay steeds i prize the sweet strong drink of thee the warriorgod.
his who pours lovely oil as ’twere with yellow drops let my songs enter thee whose form hath golden tints.
ye who in concert sing unto the goldhued place like bay steeds driving onward to the heavenly seat.
for indra laud ye strength allied with tawny steeds laud him whom cows content as ’twere with yellow drops.
his is that thunderbolt of iron goldenhued goldcoloured very dear and yellow in his arms.
bright with strong teeth destroying with its tawny rage in indra are set fast all forms of golden hue.
as if a lovely ray were laid upon the sky the golden thunderbolt spread out as in a race.
that iron bolt with yellow jaw smote ahi down a thousand flames had he who bore the tawnyhued.
thou thou when praised by men who sacrificed of old hadst pleasure in their lauds o indra goldenhaired.
all that befits thy song of praise thou welcornest the perfect pleasant gift o goldenhued from birth.
these two dear bays bring hither indra on his car thunderarmed joyous meet for laud to drink his fill.
many libations flow for him who loveth them to indra have the goldhued soma juices run.
tle goldhued drops have flowed to gratify his wish the yellow dro s have urged the swift bays to the strong.
he who speeds on with bay steeds even as he lists hath satisfied his longing for the golden drops.
at the swift draught the somadrinker waxed in might the iron one with yellow beard and yellow hair.
he lord of tawny coursers lord of fleetfoot mares will bear his bay steeds safely over all distress.
his yellowcoloured jaws like ladles move apart what time for strength he makes the yellowtinted stir.
when while the bowl stands there he grooms his tawny steeds when he hath drunk strong drink the sweet juice that he loves.
yea to the dear ones seat in homes of heaven and earth the bay steeds lord hath whinnied like a horse for food.
then the great wish hath seized upon him mightily and the beloved one hath gained high power of life.
thou comprehending with thy might the earth and heaven acceptest the dear hymn for ever new and new.
o asura disclose thou and make visible the cows beloved home to the bright golden sun.
o indra let the eager wishes of the folk bring thee delightful goldenvisored on thy car.
that pleased with sacrifice wherein ten fingers toil thou mayest at the feast drink of our offered meath.
juices aforetime lord of bays thou drankest and thine especially is this libation.
gladden thee indra with the meathrich soma pour it down ever mighty one within thee.
