joy mightiest indra known and marked sprung most from somadraughts wherewith.
thou smitest down the greedy fiend for that we long.
wherewith thou bolpest adhrigu the great daśagva and the god.
who stirs the sunlight and the sea for that we long.
wherewith thou dravest forth like cars sindhu and all the mighty floods.
to go the way ordained by law for that we long.
accept this laud for aid made pure like oil thou caster of the stone.
whereby even in a moment thou hast waxen great.
be pleased songlover with this song it flows abundant like the sea.
indra with all thy succours thou hast waxen great.
the god who from afar hath sent gifts to maintain our friendships bond.
thou spreading them like rain from heaven hast waxen great.
the beams that mark him have grown strong the thunder rests between his arms.
when like the sun he hath increased both heaven and earth.
when mighty lord of heroes thou didst cat a thousand buffaloes.
then grew and waxed exceeding great thine indrapower.
indra consumeth with the rays of sūrya the malicious man.
like agni conquering the woods he hath grown strong.
this newest thought of ours that suits the time approaches unto thee.
serving beloved in many a place it metes and marks.
the pious germ of sacrifice directly purifies the soul.
by indras lauds it waxes great it metes and marks.
indra who wins the friend hath spread himself to drink the somadraught.
like worshippers dilating praise it metes and marks.
he whom the sages living men have gladdened offering up their hymns.
hath swelled like oil of sacrifice in agnis mouth.
aditi also hath brought forth a hymn for indra sovran lord.
the work of sacrifice for help is glorified.
the ministering priests have sung their songs for aid and eulogy.
god thy bays turn not from the rite which law ordains.
if indra thou drink soma by viṣṇus or tṛta Āptyas side.
or with the maruts take delight in flowing drops.
or Śakra if thou gladden thee afar or in the sea of air.
rejoice thee in this juice of ours in flowing drops.
or lord of heroes if thou aid the worshipper who shed the juice.
or him whose laud delights thee and his flowing drops.
to magnify the god the god indra yea indra for your help.
and promptly end the sacrificethis have they gained.
with worship him whom men adore with soma him who drinks it most.
indra with lauds have they increasedthis have they gained.
his leadings are with power and might and his instructions manifold.
he gives the worshipper all wealth this have they gained.
for slaying vṛtra have the gods set indra in the foremost place.
indra the choral bands have sung for vigorous strength.
we to the mighty with our might with lauds to him who hears our call.
with holy hymns have sung aloud for vigorous strength.
not earth nor heaven nor firmaments contain the thunderwielding god.
they shake before his violent rush and vigorous strength.
what time the gods o indra get thee foremost in the furious fight.
then thy two beautiful bay steeds carried thee on.
when vṛtra stayer of the floods thou siest thundeicr with might.
then thy two beautiful bay steeds carried thee on.
when viṣṇu through thine energy strode wide those three great steps of his.
then thy two beautiful bay steeds carried thee on.
when thy two beautiful bay steeds grew great and greater day by day.
even then all creatures that had life bowed down to thee.
when indra all the marut folk humbly submitted them to thee.
even then all creatures that had life bowed down to thee.
when yonder sun that brilliant light thou settest in the heaven above.
even then all creatures that had life bowed down to thee.
to thee o indra with this thought the sage lifts up this eulogy.
akin and leading as on foot to sacrifice.
when in thine own dear dwelling all gathered have lifted up the voice.
milkstreams at worships central spot for sacrifice.
as priest o indra give us wealth in brave men and good steeds ana kine.
that we may first remember thee for sacrifice.
