with all the succours that are yours o aśvins hither come to us.
wonderful borne on paths of gold drink ye the meath with soma juice.
come now ye aśvins on your car decked with a sunbright canopy.
bountiful with your golden forms sages with depth of intellect.
come hither from the nahusas come drawn by pure hymns from midair.
o aśvins drink the savoury juice shed in the kaṇvas sacrifice.
come to us hither from the heavens come from midair wellloved by us.
here kaṇvas son hath pressed for you the pleasant meath of soma juice.
come aśvins to give car to us to drink the soma aśvins come.
hail strengtheners of the praisesong speed onward ye heroes with your thoughts.
as heroes in the olden time the Ṛṣis called you to their aid.
so now o aśvins come to us come near to this mine eulogy.
even from the luminous sphere of heaven come to us ye who find the light.
carers for vatsa through our prayers and lauds o yewho hearour call.
do others more than we adore the aśvins with their hymns of praise.
the Ṛṣi vatsa kaṇvas son hath magnified you with his songs.
the holy singer with his hymns hath called you aśvins hitherward.
best vṛtraslayers free from stain as such bring us felicity.
what time ye lords of ample wealth the lady mounted on your car.
then o ye aśvins ye attained all wishes that your hearts desired.
come thence o aśvins on your car that hath a thousand ornaments.
vatsa the sage the sages son hath sung a song of sweets to you.
cheerers of many rich in goods discoverers of opulence.
the aśvins riders through the sky have welcomed this my song of praise.
o aśvins grant us all rich gifts wherewith no man mav interfere.
make us observe the stated times give us not over to reproach.
whether nāsatyas ye be nigh or whether ye be far away.
come thence o aśvins on your car that hath a thousand ornaments.
vatsa the Ṛṣi with his songs nāsatyas hath exalted you.
grant him rich food distilling oil graced with a thousand ornaments.
bestow on him o aśvins food that strengthens and that drops with oil.
on him who praises you for bliss and lords of bounty prays for wealth.
come to us ye who slay the foe lords of rich treasure to this hymn.
o heroes give us high renown and these good things of earth for help.
the priyamedhas have invoked you with all succours that are yours.
you aśvins lords of solemn rites with calls entreating you to come.
come to us aśvins ye who bring felicity auspicious ones.
to vatsa who with prayer and hymn lovers of song hath honoured you.
aid us o heroes for those hymns for which ye helped gosarya erst.
gave vaśa dasavraja aid and kaṇva and medhatithi.
and favoured trasadasyu ye heroes in spoildeciding fray.
for these o aśvins graciously assist us in acquiring strength.
o aśvins may pure hymns of ours and songs and praises honour you.
best slayers everywhere of foes as such we fondly yearn for you.
three places of the aśvins erst concealed are made apparent now.
both sages with the flight of law come hither unto those who live.
