these who wear hairknots on the right the movers of holy thought whiterobed have won me over.
i warned the men when from the grass i raised me not from afar can my vasisthas help you.
with soma they brought indra from a distance over vaisanta from the strong libation.
indra preferred vasisthas to the soma pressed by the son of vayata pasadyumna.
so verily with these he crossed the river in company with these he slaughtered bheda.
so in the fight with the ten kings vasisthas did indra help sudās through your devotions.
i gladly men i with prayer prayed by our fathers have fixed your axle ye shall not be injured.
since when ye sang aloud the sakvari verses vasisthas ye invigorated indra.
like thirsty men they looked to heaven in battle with the ten kings surrounded and imploring.
then indra heard vasiṣṭha as he praised him and gave the trtsus ample room and freedom.
like sticks and staves wherewith they drive the cattle stripped bare the bharatas were found defenceless.
vasiṣṭha then became their chief and leader then widely were the trtsus clans extended.
three fertilize the worlds with genial moisture three noble creatures cast a light before them.
three that give warmth to all attend the morning all these have they discovered these vasisthas.
like the suns growing glory is their splendour and like the seas is their unflathomed greatness.
their course is like the winds your laud vasisthas can never be attained by any other.
they with perceptions of the heart in secret resort to that which spreads a thousand branches.
the apsaras brought hither the vasisthas wearing the vesture spun for them by yama.
a form of lustre springing from the lightning wast thou when varuṇa and mitra saw thee.
tliy one and only birth was then vasiṣṭha when from thy stock agastya brought thee hither.
born of their love for urvasi vasiṣṭha thou priest art son of varuṇa and mitra.
and as a fallen drop in heavenly fervour all the gods laid thee on a lotusblossorn.
he thinker knower both of earth and heaven endowed with many a gift bestowing thousands.
destined to wear the vesture spun by yama sprang from the apsaras to life vasiṣṭha.
born at the sacrifice urged by adorations both with a common flow bedewed the pitcher.
then from the midst thereof there rose up māna and thence they say was born the sage vasiṣṭha.
he brings the bearer of the laud and sāman first shall he speak bringing the stone for pressing.
with grateful hearts in reverence approach him to you o pratrdas vasiṣṭha cometh.
