the drops of soma juice like cows who yield their milk have flowed forth rich in meath unto the shining one.
and seated on the grass raising their voice assumed the milk the covering robe wherewith the udders stream.
he bellows with a roar arourd the highest twigs the tawny one is sweetened as he breaks them up.
then passing through the sieve into the ample room the god throws off the dregs according to his wish.
the gladdening drink that measured out the meeting twins fills full with milk the eternal everwaxing pair.
bringing to light the two great regions limitless moving above them he gained sheen that never fades.
wandering through the parents strengthening the floods the sage makes his place swell with his own native might.
the stalk is mixed with grain he comes led by the men together with the sisters and preserves the head.
with energetic intellect the sage is born deposited as germ of law far from the twins.
they being young at first showed visibly distinct the creature that is halfconcealed and halfexposed.
the sages knew the form of him the gladdener what time the falcon brought the plant from far away.
him who assures success they beautified in streams the stalk who yearned therefor mighty and meet for praise.
together with the Ṛṣis with their prayers and hymns ten women deck thee soma friendly when effused.
led by the men with invocations of the gods through the fleece thou hast given us strength to win the spoil.
songs resonant with praise have celebrated him soma friend springing forth with his fair company.
even him who rich in meath with undulating stream winnner of wealth immortal sends his voice from heaven.
he sends it into all the region forth from heaven soma while he is filtcred settles in the jars.
with milk and waters is he decked when pressed with stones indu when purified shall find sweet rest and room.
even thus poured forth how on thy way o soma vouchsafing us most manifold lively vigour.
we will invoke benevolent earth and heaven give us ye gods riches with noble heroes.
