for first possession of your juice for the exhilarating drink.
drive ye away the dog my friends drive ye the longtongued dog away.
he who with purifying stream effused comes flowing hitherward.
indu is like an able steed.
the men with allpervading song send unassailable soma forth.
by pressingstones to sacrifice.
the somas very rich in sweets for which the sieve is destined flow.
effused the source of indras joy may your strong juices reach the gods.
indu flows on for indras sake thus have the deities declared.
the lord of speech exerts himself ruler of all because of might.
inciter of the voice of song with thousand streams the ocean flows.
even soma lord of opulence the friend of indra day by day.
as pūṣan fortune bhaga comes this soma while they make him pure.
he lord of the multitude hath looked upon the earth and heaven.
the dear cows lowed in joyful mood together to the gladdening drink.
the drops as they were purified the soma juices made then paths.
o pavamana bring the juice the mightiest worthy to be famed.
which the five tribes have over them whereby we may win opulence.
for us the soma juices flow the drops best furtherers of our weal.
effused as friends without a spot benevolent finders of the light.
effused by means of pressingstones upon the oxhide visible.
they treasurefinders have announced food unto us from every side.
tlese soma juices skilled in song purified blent with milk and curd.
when moving and when firmly laid in oil resemble lovely suns.
let not the power of men restrain the voice of the outpouring juice.
as bhṛgus sons chased makha so drive ye the greedy hound away.
the friend hath wrapped him in his robe as in his parents arms a son.
he went as lover to a dame to take his station suitorlike.
that hero who produces strength he who hath propped both worlds apart.
goldhued hath wrapped him in the sieve to settle priestlike in his place.
soma upon the oxs skin through the sheeps wool flows purified.
bellowing out the tawny steer goes on to indras special place.
