to him who shines afar vaiśvānara shall bards give precious things that he may go on certain paths.
for agni the immortal serves the deities and therefore never breaks their everlasting laws.
he wondrous envoy goes between the earth and heaven firm seated as the herald great high priest of men.
he compassethwith rays the lofty dwellingplace agni sent forward by the gods enriched with piayer.
sages shall glorify agni with earnest thoughts ensign of sacrifice who fills the synod full.
in whom the singers have stored up their holy acts to him the worshipper looks for joy and happiness.
the sire of sacrifice great god of holy bards agni the measure and the symbol of the priests.
hath entered heaven and earth that show in varied form the sage whom many love rejoiceth in his might.
bright agni with the bright car lord of green domains vaiśvānara dweller in the floods who finds the light.
pervading swift and wild encompassed round with powers him very glorious have the gods established here.
agni together with the gods and manus folk by thought extending sacrifice in varied form.
goes carborne to and fro with those who crown each rite the fleet the household friend who turns the curse aside.
sing agni for long life to us and noble sons teem thou with plenty shine upon us store of food.
increase the great mans strength thou evervigilant thou longing for the gods knowest their hymns full well.
the mighty one lord of the people and their guest the leader of their thoughts devoted friend of priests.
our solemn rites announcer jātavedas men with worship ever praise with urgings for their weal.
agni the god resplendent giver of great joy hath on his lovely car compassed the lands with might.
let us with pure laudations in his house approach the high laws of the nourisher of multitudes.
i celebrate thy glories o vaiśvānara wherewith thou o farsighted god has found the light.
thou filledst at thy birth both worlds the earth and heaven all this o agni hast thou compassed of thyself.
by his great skill the sage alone hath brought to pass a great deed mightier than vaiśvānaras wondrous acts.
agni sprang into being magnifying both his parents heaven and earth rich in prolific seed.
