say bringing sacrifice to bounteous rudra this juice for drink to you whose wrath is fleeting.
with dyaus the asuras heroes i have lauded the maruts as with prayer to earth and heaven.
strong to exalt the early invocation are night and dawn who show with varied aspect.
the barren clothes her in widewoven raiment and fair morn shines with sūryas golden splendour.
cheer us the roamer round who strikes at morning the wind delight us pourer forth of waters.
sharpen our wits o parvata and indra may all the gods vouchsafe to us this favour.
and auśija shall call for me that famous pair who enjoy and drink who come to brighten.
set ye the offspring of the floods before you both mothers of the living one who beameth.
for you shall auśija call him who thunders as to win arjunas assent cried ghoṣā.
i will invoke that pūṣan may be bounteous to you the rich munificence of agni.
hear mitravaruṇa these mine invocations hear them from all men in the hall of worship.
giver of famous gifts kind hearer sindhu who gives fair fields listen with all his waters.
praised mitra varuṇa is your gift a hundred cows to the pṛkṣayāmas and the pajra.
presented by carfamous priyaratha supplying nourishment they came directly.
praised is the gift of him the very wealthy may we enjoy it men with hero children.
his who hath many gifts to give the pajras a chief who makes me rich in cars and horses.
the folk o mitravaruṇa who hate you who sinfully hating pour you no libations.
lay in their hearts themselves a wasting sickness whereas the righteous gaineth all by worship.
that man most puissant wondrously urged onward famed among heroes liberal in giving.
moveth a warrior evermore undaunted in all encounters even with the mighty.
come to the mans the sacrificers calling hear kings of immortality joygivers.
while ye who speed through clouds decree your bounty largely for fame to him the chariot rider.
vigour will we bestow on that adorer whose tenfold draught we come to taste so spake they.
may all in whom rest splendour and great riches obtain refreshment in these sacrifices.
we will rejoice to drink the tenfold present when the twicefive come bearing sacred viands.
what can he do whose steeds and reins are choicest these the allpotent urge brave men to conquest.
the sea and all the deities shall give us him with the golden ear and neck bejewelled.
dawns hasting to the praises of the pious be pleased with us both offerers and singers.
four youthful sons of maśarśāra vex me three of the king the conquering ayavasa.
now like the sun o varuṇa and mitra your car hath shone longshaped and reined with splendour.
