eager for spoil my flow of speech i utter may the floods child accept my songs with favour.
will not the rapid son of waters make them lovely for he it is who shall enjoy them.
to him let us address the song wellfashioned forth from the heart shall he not understand it.
the friendly son of waters by the greatness of godhead hath produced all things existing.
some floods unite themselves and others join them die sounding rivers fill one common storehouse.
on every side the bright floods have encompassed the bright resplendent offspring of the waters.
the neversullen waters youthful maidens carefully decking wait on him the youthful.
he with bright rays shines forth in splendid beauty unfed with wood in waters oilenveloped.
to him three dames are offering food to feed him goddesses to the god whom none may injure.
within the waters hath he pressed as hollows and drinks their milk who now are first made mothers.
here was the horses birth his was the sunlight save thou our princes from the oppressors onslaught.
him indestructible dwelling at a distance in forts unwrought lies and ill spirits reach not.
he in whose mansion is the teeming milchcow swells the gods’ nectar and cats noble viands.
the son of waters gathering strength in waters shines for his worshipper to give him treasures.
he who in waters with his own pure godhead shines widely lawabiding everlasting—.
the other worlds are verily his branches and plants are born of him with all their offspring.
the waters’ son hath risen and clothed in lightning ascended up unto the curled clouds bosom.
and bearing with them his supremest glory the youthful ones goldcoloured move around him.
golden in form is he like gold to look on his colour is like gold the son of waters.
when he is seated fresh from golden birthplace those who present their gold give food to feed him.
this the fair name and this the lovely aspect of him the waters’ son increase in secret.
whom here the youthful maids together kindle his food is sacred oil of golden colour.
him nearest friend of many will we worship with sacrifice and reverence and oblation.
i make his back to shine with chips provide him i offer food and with my songs exalt him.
the bull hath laid his own lifegerm within them he sucks them as an infant and they kiss him.
he son of waters of unfading colour hath entered here as in anothers body.
while here he dwelleth in sublimest station resplendent with the rays that never perish.
the waters bearing oil to feed their offspring flow youthful ones in wanderings about him.
agni i gave good shelter to the people and to the princes goodly preparation.
blessed is all that gods regard with favour loud may we speak with heroes in assembly.
