there are the dawn and night the grand and beauteous pair earth heaven and varuṇa mitra and aryaman.
indra i call the maruts mountains and the floods Ādityas heaven and earth the waters and the sky.
may dyaus and prthivi wise true to holy law keep us in safety from distress and injury.
let not malignant nirrti rule over us we crave today this gracious favour of the gods.
mother of mitra and of opulent varuṇa may aditi preserve us safe from all distress.
may we obtain the light of heaven without a foe we crave this gracious favour of the gods today.
may ringing pressstones keep the rākṣasas afar ill dream and nirrti and each voracious fiend.
may the Ādityas and the maruts shelter us we crave this gracious favour of the gods today.
full flow libations on our grass let indra sit bṛhaspati the singer laud with sāma hymns.
wise be our hearts imaginings that we may live we crave this gracious favour of the gods today.
ye aśvins make our sacrifice ascend to heaven and animate the rite that it may send us bliss.
offered with holy oil with forwardspeeding rein we crave the gracious favour of the gods today.
hither i call the band of maruts swift to hear great purifying bringing bliss to he our friends.
may we increase our wealth to glorify our name we crave this graciousfavour of the gods today.
we bring the stay of life who makes the waters swell swifthearing friend of gods who waits on sacrifice.
may we control that power soma whose rays are bright we crave this gracious favour of the gods today.
alive ourselves with living sons devoid of guilt may we win this with winners by fair means to win.
let the prayerhaters bear our sin to every side we crave this gracious favour of the gods today.
hear us o ye who claim the worship of mankind and give us o ye gods the gift for which we pray.
victorious wisdom fame with heroes and with wealth we crave today this gracious favour of the gods.
we crave the gracious favour of the gods today great favour of great gods sublime and free from foes.
that we may gain rich treasure sprung from hero sons we crave this gracious favour of the gods today.
in great enkindled agnis keeping and for bliss free from all sin before mitra and varuṇa.
may we share savitars best animating help we crave this gracious favour of the gods today.
all ye the gods whom savitar the father of truth and varuṇa and mitra govern.
give us prosperity with hero children and opulence in kine and various treasure.
savitar savitar from cast and westward savitar savitar from north and southward.
savitar send us perfect health and comfort savitar let our days of life be lengthened.
