swift rapidly striking like a bull who sharpens his horns terrific stirring up the people.
with eyes that close not bellowing sole hero indra subdued at once a hundred armies.
with him loudroaring ever watchful victor bold hard to overthrow rouser of battle.
indra the strong whose hand bears arrows conquer ye warriors now now vanquish in the combat.
he rules with those who carry shafts and quivers indra who with his band rings hosts together.
foeconquering strong of arm the somadrinker with mighty bow shooting with welllaid arrows.
bṛhaspati fly with thy chariot hither slayer of demons driving off our foemen.
be thou protector of our cars destroyer victor in battle breakerup of armies.
conspicuous by thy strength firm foremost fighter mighty and fierce victorious allsubduing.
the son of conquest passing men and heroes kinewinner mount thy conquering car o indra.
cleaver of stalls kinewinner armed with thunder who quells an army and with might destroys it.
follow him brothers quit yourselves like heroes and like this indra show your zeal and courage.
piercing the cowstalls with surpassing vigour indra the pitiless hero wild with anger.
victor in fight unshaken and resistlessmay he protect our armies in our battles.
indra guide these bṛhaspati precede them the guerdon and the sacrifice and soma.
and let the banded maruts march in forefront of heavenly hosts that conquer and demolish.
ours be the potent host of mighty indra king varuṇa and maruts and Ādityas.
uplifted is the shout of gods who conquer highminded gods who cause the worlds to tremble.
bristle thou up o maghavan our weapons excite the spirits of my warring heroes.
urge on the strong steeds might o vṛtraslayer and let the din of conquering cars go upward.
may indra aid us when our flags are gathered victorious be the arrows of our army.
may our brave men of war prevail in battle ye gods protect us in the shout of onset.
bewildering the senses of our foemen seize thou their bodies and depart o apva.
attack them set their hearts on fire and burn them so let our foes abide in utter darkness.
advance o heroes win the day may indra be your sure defence.
exceeding mighty be your arms that none may wound or injure you.
