what splendid one loudvoiced farstriding dost thou well knowing urge us to exalt with praises.
what give we him when his might dawned he fashioned the vṛtraslaying bolt and sent us waters.
he goes to end his work with lightning flashes wide is the seat his asura glory gives him.
with his companions not without his brother he quells saptathas magic devices.
on most auspicious path he goes to battle he toiled to win heavens light full fain to gain it.
he seized the hundredgated castles treasure by craft unchecked and slew the lustful demons.
fighting for kine the prize of war and i roaming among the berd be brings the young streams hither.
where footless joined without a car to bear them with jars for steeds they pour their flood like butter.
bold unsolicited for wealth with rudras he came the blameless having left his dwelling.
came seized the food of vamra and his consort and left the couple weeping and unsheltered.
lord of the dwelling he subdued the demon who roared aloud sixeyed and tripleheaded.
tṛta made stronger by the might he lent him struck down the boar with shaft whose point was iron.
he raised himself on high and shot his arrow against the guileful and oppressive foeman.
strong glorious manliest for us he shattered the forts of nabus when he slew the dasyus.
he like a cloud that rains upon the pasture hath found for us the way to dwell in safety.
when the hawk comes in body to the soma armed with his iron claws he slays the dasyus.
he with his potent friends gave up the mighty gave gusnia up to kutsa for affliction.
he led the lauded kavi he delivered atka as prey to him and to his heroes.
he with his gods who love mankind the wondrous giving like varuṇa who works with magic.
was known yet young as guardian of the seasons and he quelled araru fourfooted dernon.
through lauds of him hath auśija Ṛjiśvan burst with the mightys aid the stall of pipru.
when the saint pressed the juice and shone as singer he seized the forts and with his craft subdued them.
so swiftly asura for exaltation hath the great vamraka come nigh to indra.
he will when supplicated bring him blessing he hath brought all food strength a happy dwelling.
