first agni sprang to life from out of heaven the second time from us came jātavedas.
thirdly the manlysouled was in the waters the pious lauds and kindles him the eternal.
agni we know thy three powers in three stations we know thy forms in many a place divided.
we know what name supreme thou hast in secret we know the source from which thou hast proceeded.
the manlysouled lit thee in sea and waters mans viewer lit thee in the breast of heaven.
there as thou stoodest in the third high region the steers increased thee in the waters bosom.
agni roared out like dyaus what time he thunders he licked the ground about the plants he flickered.
at once when born he looked around enkindled and lightened heaven and earth within with splendour.
the spring of glories and support of riches rouser of thoughts and guardian of the soma.
good son of strength a king amid the waters in forefront of the dawns he shines enkindled.
germ of the world ensign of all creation be sprang to life and filled the earth and heavens.
even the firm rock he cleft when passing over when the five tribes brought sacrifice to agni.
so among mortals was immortal agni stablished as holy wise and willing envoy.
he waves the red smoke that he lifts above him striving to reach the heavens with radiant lustre.
like gold to look on far he shone refulgent beaming imperishable life for glory.
agni by vital powers became immortal when his prolific father dyaus begat him.
whoso this day o god whose flames are lovely prepares a cake o agni mixt with butter.
lead thou and further him to higher fortune to bliss bestowed by gods o thou most youthful.
endow him agni with a share of glory at every song of praise sung forth enrich him.
dear let him be to sūrya dear to agni preeminent with son and childrens children.
while agni day by day men pay thee worship they win themselves all treasures worth the wishing.
allied with thee eager and craving riches they have disclosed the stable filled with cattle.
agni the friend of men the somas keeper vaiśvānara hath been lauded by the Ṛṣis.
we will invoke benignant earth and heaven ye deities give us wealth with hero children.
