this holy hymn sublime and sevenheaded sprung from eternal law our sire discovered.
ayasya friend of all men hath engendered the fourth hymn as he sang his laud to indra.
thinking aright praising eternal order the sons of dyaus the asura those heroes.
aṅgirases holding the rank of sages first honoured sacrifices holy statute.
girt by his friends who cried with swanlike voices bursting the stony barriers of the prison.
bṛhaspati spake in thunder to the cattle and uttered praise and song when he had found them.
apart from one away from two above him he drave the kine that stood in bonds of falsehood.
bṛhaspati seeking light amid the darkness drave forth the bright cows three he made apparent.
when he had cleft the lairs and western castle he cut off three from him who held the waters.
bṛhaspati discovered while he thundered like dyaus the dawn the sun the cow the lightning.
as with a hand so with his roaring indra cleft vala through the guardian of the cattle.
seeking the milkdraught with sweatshining comrades he stole the paṇis kine and left him weeping.
he with bright faithful friends winners of booty hath rent the milker of the cows asunder.
bṛhaspati with wild boars strong and mighty sweating with heat hath gained a rich possession.
they longing for the kine with faithful spirit incited with their hymns the lord of cattle.
bṛhaspati freed the radiant cows with comrades selfyoked averting shame from one another.
in our assembly with auspicious praises exalting him who roareth like a lion.
maywe in every fight where heroes conquer rejoice in strong bṛhaspati the victor.
when he had won him every sort of booty and gone to heaven and its most lofty mansions.
men praised bṛhaspati the mighty bringing the light within their mouths from sundry places.
fulfil the prayer that begs for vital vigour aid in your wonted manner even the humble.
let all our foes be turned and driven backward hear this o heaven and earth ye allproducers.
indra with mighty strength cleft asunder the head of arbuda the watery monster.
slain ahi and set free the seven rivers o heaven and earth with all the gods protect us.
