sprung from tall trees on windy heights these rollers transport me as they turn upon the table.
dearer to me the die that never slumbers than the deep draught of mujavans own soma.
she never vexed me nor was angry with me but to my friends and me was ever gracious.
for the dies sake whose single point is final mine own devoted wife i alienated.
my wife holds me aloof her mother hates me the wretched man finds none to give him comfort.
as of a costly horse grown old and feeble i find not any profit of the gamester.
others caress the wife of him whose riches the die hath coveted that rapid courser.
of him speak father mother brothers saying we know him not bind him and take him with you.
when i resolve to play with these no longer my friends depart from me and leave me lonely.
when the brown dice thrown on the board have rattled like a fond girl i seek the place of meeting.
the gamester seeks the gamblinghouse and wonders his body all afire shall i be lucky.
still do the dice extend his eager longing staking his gains against his adversary.
dice verily are armed with goads and drivinghooks deceiving and tormenting causing grievous woe.
they give frail gifts and then destroy the man who wins thickly anointed with the players fairest good.
merrily sports their troop the threeandfifty like savitar the god whose ways are faithful.
they bend not even to the mightys anger the king himself pays homage and reveres them.
downward they roll and then spring quickly upward and handless force the man with hands to serve them.
cast on the board like lumps of magic charcoal though cold themselves they burn the heart to ashes.
the gamblers wife is left forlorn and wretched the mother mourns the son who wanders homeless.
in constant fear in debt and seeking riches he goes by night unto the home of others.
sad is the gambler when he sees a matron anothers wife and his wellordered dwelling.
he yokes the brown steeds in the early morning and when the fire is cold sinks down an outcast.
to the great captain of your mighty army who hath become the hosts imperial leader.
to him i show my ten extended fingers i speak the truth no wealth am i withholding.
play not with dice no cultivate thy cornland enjoy the gain and deem that wealth sufficient.
there are thy cattle there thy wife o gambler so this good savitar himself hath told me.
make me your friend show us some little mercy assail us not with your terrific fierceness.
appeased be your malignity and anger and let the brown dice snare some other captive.
